Documentation/btrfs-receive.asciidoc, before:

btrfs-receive(8)
================

NAME
----
btrfs-receive - receive subvolumes from send stream

SYNOPSIS
--------
*btrfs receive* [options] <path>

DESCRIPTION
-----------

Receive a stream of changes and replicate one or more subvolumes that were
previously used with *btrfs send* The received subvolumes are stored to
'path'.

*btrfs receive* will fail int the following cases:

1. receiving subvolume already exists

2. previously received subvolume was changed after it was received

3. default subvolume has changed or you didn't mount BTRFS filesystem at the toplevel subvolume

A subvolume is made read-only after the receiving process finishes succesfully.

`Options`

-v::
enable verbose debug output, print each operation (each occurrence of this
option increases the verbosity level)

-f <infile>::
by default, btrfs receive uses standard input to receive the stream,
use this option to read from a file instead

-C|--chroot::
confine the process to 'path' using `chroot`(1)

-e::
terminate after receiving an 'end cmd' marker in the stream.
+
Without this option, the receiver terminates only if an error is encountered
or at end of file

--max-errors <N>::
terminate as soon as N errors happened while processing commands from the send
stream, default value is 1, 0 means no limit

-m <mountpoint>::
the root mount point of the destination filesystem
+
By default the mountpoint is searched in '/proc/self/mounts'.
If you do not have '/proc', eg. in a chroot environment, use this option to tell
us where this filesystem is mounted.

EXIT STATUS
-----------
*btrfs receive* returns a zero exit status if it succeeds. Non zero is
returned in case of failure.

AVAILABILITY
------------
*btrfs* is part of btrfs-progs.
Please refer to the btrfs wiki http://btrfs.wiki.kernel.org for
further details.

SEE ALSO
--------
`mkfs.btrfs`(8),
`btrfs-send`(8)

Commit message:

btrfs-progs: receive: introduce option to dump send stream
Introduce new option, '--dump' for receive subcommand.

With this command, user can dump the metadata of a send stream.
Which is quite useful for education purpose or bug reporting.

Signed-off-by: Qu Wenruo <quwenruo@cn.fujitsu.com>
Signed-off-by: David Sterba <dsterba@suse.com>

Documentation/btrfs-receive.asciidoc, after:

btrfs-receive(8)
================

NAME
----
btrfs-receive - receive subvolumes from send stream

SYNOPSIS
--------
*btrfs receive* [options] <path>

or

*btrfs receive* --dump [options]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

Receive a stream of changes and replicate one or more subvolumes that were
previously used with *btrfs send* The received subvolumes are stored to
'path', if '--dump' option is not given.

If '--dump' option is given, *btrfs receive* will only do the validation of
the stream, and print the stream metadata.

*btrfs receive* will fail int the following cases:

1. receiving subvolume already exists

2. previously received subvolume was changed after it was received

3. default subvolume has changed or you didn't mount BTRFS filesystem at the toplevel subvolume

A subvolume is made read-only after the receiving process finishes succesfully.

`Options`

-v::
enable verbose debug output, print each operation (each occurrence of this
option increases the verbosity level)

-f <infile>::
by default, btrfs receive uses standard input to receive the stream,
use this option to read from a file instead

-C|--chroot::
confine the process to 'path' using `chroot`(1)

-e::
terminate after receiving an 'end cmd' marker in the stream.
+
Without this option, the receiver terminates only if an error is encountered
or at end of file

--max-errors <N>::
terminate as soon as N errors happened while processing commands from the send
stream, default value is 1, 0 means no limit

-m <mountpoint>::
the root mount point of the destination filesystem
+
By default the mountpoint is searched in '/proc/self/mounts'.
If you do not have '/proc', eg. in a chroot environment, use this option to tell
us where this filesystem is mounted.

--dump::
print the stream metadata
+
Does not accept the 'path' parameter. So with this option, *btrfs receive* won't
modify your filesystem, and can be run by non-privileged users.

EXIT STATUS
-----------
*btrfs receive* returns a zero exit status if it succeeds. Non zero is
returned in case of failure.

AVAILABILITY
------------
*btrfs* is part of btrfs-progs.
Please refer to the btrfs wiki http://btrfs.wiki.kernel.org for
further details.

SEE ALSO
--------
`mkfs.btrfs`(8),
`btrfs-send`(8)
