Documentation/btrfs-dedupe-inband.asciidoc, before:

btrfs-dedupe(8)
==============

NAME
----
btrfs-dedupe-inband - manage in-band (write time) de-duplication of a btrfs
filesystem

SYNOPSIS
--------
*btrfs dedupe-inband* <subcommand> <args>

DESCRIPTION
-----------
*btrfs dedupe-inband* is used to enable/disable or show current in-band de-duplication
status of a btrfs filesystem.

Kernel support for in-band de-duplication starts from 4.8.

WARNING: In-band de-duplication is still an experimental feautre of btrfs,
use with caution.

SUBCOMMAND
----------
*disable* <path>::
Disable in-band de-duplication for a filesystem.
+
This will trash all stored dedupe hash.
+
*enable* [options] <path>::
Enable in-band de-duplication for a filesystem.
+
`Options`
+
-f|--force::::
Force 'enable' command to be exected.
Will skip memory limit check and allow 'enable' to be executed even in-band
de-duplication is already enabled.
+
NOTE: If re-enable dedupe with '-f' option, any unspecified parameter will be
reset to its default value.

-s|--storage-backend <BACKEND>::::
Specify de-duplication hash storage backend.
Only 'inmemory' backend is supported yet.
If not specified, default value is 'inmemory'.
+
Refer to *BACKENDS* sector for more information.

-b|--blocksize <BLOCKSIZE>::::
Specify dedupe block size.
Supported values are power of 2 from '16K' to '8M'.
Default value is '128K'.
+
Refer to *BLOCKSIZE* sector for more information.

-a|--hash-algorithm <HASH>::::
Specify hash algorithm.
Only 'sha256' is supported yet.

-l|--limit-hash <LIMIT>::::
Specify maximum number of hashes stored in memory.
Only works for 'inmemory' backend.
Conflicts with '-m' option.
+
Only positive values are valid.
Default value is '32K'.

-m|--limit-memory <LIMIT>::::
Specify maximum memory used for hashes.
Only works for 'inmemory' backend.
Conflicts with '-l' option.
+
Only value larger than or equal to '1024' is valid.
No default value.
+
NOTE: Memory limit will be rounded down to kernel internal hash size,
so the memory limit shown in 'btrfs dedupe status' may be different
from the <LIMIT>.

WARNING: Too large value for '-l' or '-m' will easily trigger OOM.
Please use with caution according to system memory.

NOTE: In-band de-duplication is not compactible with compression yet.
And compression has higher priority than in-band de-duplication, means if
compression and de-duplication is enabled at the same time, only compression
will work.

*status* <path>::
Show current in-band de-duplication status of a filesystem.

BACKENDS
--------
Btrfs in-band de-duplication will support different storage backends, with
different use case and features.

In-memory backend::
This backend provides backward-compatibility, and more fine-tuning options.
But hash pool is non-persistent and may exhaust kernel memory if not setup
properly.
+
This backend can be used on old btrfs(without '-O dedupe' mkfs option).
When used on old btrfs, this backend needs to be enabled manually after mount.
+
Designed for fast hash search speed, in-memory backend will keep all dedupe
hashes in memory. (Although overall performance is still much the same with
'ondisk' backend if all 'ondisk' hash can be cached in memory)
+
And only keeps limited number of hash in memory to avoid exhausting memory.
Hashes over the limit will be dropped following Last-Recent-Use behavior.
So this backend has a consistent overhead for given limit but can\'t ensure
all duplicated blocks will be de-duplicated.
+
After umount and mount, in-memory backend need to refill its hash pool.

On-disk backend::
This backend provides persistent hash pool, with more smart memory management
for hash pool.
But it\'s not backward-compatible, meaning it must be used with '-O dedupe' mkfs
option and older kernel can\'t mount it read-write.
+
Designed for de-duplication rate, hash pool is stored as btrfs B+ tree on disk.
This behavior may cause extra disk IO for hash search under high memory
pressure.
+
After umount and mount, on-disk backend still has its hash on disk, no need to
refill its dedupe hash pool.

Currently, only 'inmemory' backend is supported in btrfs-progs.

DEDUPE BLOCK SIZE
----------------
In-band de-duplication is done at dedupe block size.
Any data smaller than dedupe block size won\'t go through in-band
de-duplication.

And dedupe block size affects dedupe rate and fragmentation heavily.

Smaller block size will cause more fragments, but higher dedupe rate.

Larger block size will cause less fragments, but lower dedupe rate.

In-band de-duplication rate is highly related to the workload pattern.
So it\'s highly recommended to align dedupe block size to the workload
block size to make full use of de-duplication.

EXIT STATUS
-----------
*btrfs dedupe-inband* returns a zero exit status if it succeeds. Non zero is
returned in case of failure.

AVAILABILITY
------------
*btrfs* is part of btrfs-progs.
Please refer to the btrfs wiki http://btrfs.wiki.kernel.org for
further details.

SEE ALSO
--------
`mkfs.btrfs`(8),

Commit message:

btrfs-progs: dedupe: introduce reconfigure subcommand
Introduce reconfigure subcommand to co-operate with new kernel ioctl
modification.

Signed-off-by: Qu Wenruo <quwenruo@cn.fujitsu.com>

Documentation/btrfs-dedupe-inband.asciidoc, after:

btrfs-dedupe(8)
==============

NAME
----
btrfs-dedupe-inband - manage in-band (write time) de-duplication of a btrfs
filesystem

SYNOPSIS
--------
*btrfs dedupe-inband* <subcommand> <args>

DESCRIPTION
-----------
*btrfs dedupe-inband* is used to enable/disable or show current in-band de-duplication
status of a btrfs filesystem.

Kernel support for in-band de-duplication starts from 4.8.

WARNING: In-band de-duplication is still an experimental feautre of btrfs,
use with caution.

SUBCOMMAND
----------
*disable* <path>::
Disable in-band de-duplication for a filesystem.
+
This will trash all stored dedupe hash.
+
*enable* [options] <path>::
Enable in-band de-duplication for a filesystem.
+
`Options`
+
-f|--force::::
Force 'enable' command to be exected.
Will skip memory limit check and allow 'enable' to be executed even in-band
de-duplication is already enabled.
+
NOTE: If re-enable dedupe with '-f' option, any unspecified parameter will be
reset to its default value.

-s|--storage-backend <BACKEND>::::
Specify de-duplication hash storage backend.
Only 'inmemory' backend is supported yet.
If not specified, default value is 'inmemory'.
+
Refer to *BACKENDS* sector for more information.

-b|--blocksize <BLOCKSIZE>::::
Specify dedupe block size.
Supported values are power of 2 from '16K' to '8M'.
Default value is '128K'.
+
Refer to *BLOCKSIZE* sector for more information.

-a|--hash-algorithm <HASH>::::
Specify hash algorithm.
Only 'sha256' is supported yet.

-l|--limit-hash <LIMIT>::::
Specify maximum number of hashes stored in memory.
Only works for 'inmemory' backend.
Conflicts with '-m' option.
+
Only positive values are valid.
Default value is '32K'.

-m|--limit-memory <LIMIT>::::
Specify maximum memory used for hashes.
Only works for 'inmemory' backend.
Conflicts with '-l' option.
+
Only value larger than or equal to '1024' is valid.
No default value.
+
NOTE: Memory limit will be rounded down to kernel internal hash size,
so the memory limit shown in 'btrfs dedupe status' may be different
from the <LIMIT>.

WARNING: Too large value for '-l' or '-m' will easily trigger OOM.
Please use with caution according to system memory.

NOTE: In-band de-duplication is not compactible with compression yet.
And compression has higher priority than in-band de-duplication, means if
compression and de-duplication is enabled at the same time, only compression
will work.

*reconfigure* [options] <path>::
Re-configure in-band de-duplication parameters of a filesystem.
+
In-band de-duplication must be enbaled first before re-configuration.
+
[Options] are the same with 'btrfs dedupe-inband enable'.

*status* <path>::
Show current in-band de-duplication status of a filesystem.

BACKENDS
--------
Btrfs in-band de-duplication will support different storage backends, with
different use case and features.

In-memory backend::
This backend provides backward-compatibility, and more fine-tuning options.
But hash pool is non-persistent and may exhaust kernel memory if not setup
properly.
+
This backend can be used on old btrfs(without '-O dedupe' mkfs option).
When used on old btrfs, this backend needs to be enabled manually after mount.
+
Designed for fast hash search speed, in-memory backend will keep all dedupe
hashes in memory. (Although overall performance is still much the same with
'ondisk' backend if all 'ondisk' hash can be cached in memory)
+
And only keeps limited number of hash in memory to avoid exhausting memory.
Hashes over the limit will be dropped following Last-Recent-Use behavior.
So this backend has a consistent overhead for given limit but can\'t ensure
all duplicated blocks will be de-duplicated.
+
After umount and mount, in-memory backend need to refill its hash pool.

On-disk backend::
This backend provides persistent hash pool, with more smart memory management
for hash pool.
But it\'s not backward-compatible, meaning it must be used with '-O dedupe' mkfs
option and older kernel can\'t mount it read-write.
+
Designed for de-duplication rate, hash pool is stored as btrfs B+ tree on disk.
This behavior may cause extra disk IO for hash search under high memory
pressure.
+
After umount and mount, on-disk backend still has its hash on disk, no need to
refill its dedupe hash pool.

Currently, only 'inmemory' backend is supported in btrfs-progs.

DEDUPE BLOCK SIZE
----------------
In-band de-duplication is done at dedupe block size.
Any data smaller than dedupe block size won\'t go through in-band
de-duplication.

And dedupe block size affects dedupe rate and fragmentation heavily.

Smaller block size will cause more fragments, but higher dedupe rate.

Larger block size will cause less fragments, but lower dedupe rate.

In-band de-duplication rate is highly related to the workload pattern.
So it\'s highly recommended to align dedupe block size to the workload
block size to make full use of de-duplication.

EXIT STATUS
-----------
*btrfs dedupe-inband* returns a zero exit status if it succeeds. Non zero is
returned in case of failure.

AVAILABILITY
------------
*btrfs* is part of btrfs-progs.
Please refer to the btrfs wiki http://btrfs.wiki.kernel.org for
further details.

SEE ALSO
--------
`mkfs.btrfs`(8),
